Competition: 40115

Duration: 4 months (possibility of extension to 8 months)

Number of positions: 2

Location: Richmond, BC

Work term start: September 1, 2026

Work term end: December 31, 2026

Cover letter: address cover letter to Jennifer Wing, Manager Analytics Strategy & Delivery



Overview

The Enterprise Data Strategy & Services (EDSS) department of WorkSafeBC is looking for 2 (two) highly motivated, innovative, and customer-focused Co-op student, Analytics Data Services (ADS) Analyst, with a keen interest in data-science, strategic analysis, and program evaluation to join our team to help us strive towards our vision.

As a co-op student, you'll contribute to the effectiveness of WorkSafeBC by providing business intelligence, analysis/analytical advice, and decision support to an assigned area of business. You will also assist in conducting research, strategic analysis, advanced analytics, ad hoc & operational reporting, and the evaluation of a wide variety of issues (e.g., occupational health and safety, financial risk exposure, regulation/policy effectiveness, and disability claims management) by using various sources of business data (internal and external data sources) and communicating those findings and related interpretations/observations to a variety of audiences.

This is a four-month (4) temporary opportunity beginning in September 2026 with the possibility of extending it to 8 months.



How you'll make a difference: You'll apply what you've learned in your post-secondary program to benefit workers and employers across B.C.



Where you'll work


At WorkSafeBC, we offer a hybrid work model that combines working remotely, and in our offices based on the operational needs of the position. Please be aware that the two weeks onboarding period is full time onsite.



What you'll do


On Day 1 in this role, you will get a chance to meet your manager and get acquainted with your team. You will spend time setting up administrative and technological essentials, and completing onboarding tasks, including security and payroll setup.


During your first week you will engage in a comprehensive onboarding program as well as partner with a work buddy to equip you for success. You will be partnering and meeting with your manager to discuss your goals and align them with the team's vision. Additionally, you will learn how our department contributes to the overall business strategy and supports the organization's mandate. You will also work through different safety and security courses as part of the WorkSafeBC e-learning modules.



Your daily responsibilities include:


Identify problems, define research questions, and develop creative solutions with recommendations for the business.
Analyze complex data using advanced methods to improve decision-making, assess business performance, and find ways to optimize operations.
Collaborate with teams to create and implement analytics solutions that provide strategic insights and actionable information.
Organize and lead meetings with business teams and partners like IT, Business Engagement Services, and Marketing.
Create clear business documents and presentations, making complex information easy for business teams to understand and act on.
Consistently models the appropriate level of organizational behaviours expected of all WorkSafeBC employees: responsive, respectful, fair, collaborative, accountable, and forward thinking.


Is this a good fit for you?


We're looking for someone who can:


Demonstrate strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
Demonstrate strong teamwork and collaboration skills.
Demonstrate strong organization skills.
Build solid relationships with internal and external customers.
Communicate effectively both in writing and verbally.

Learn more: Hear from past co-op students on what it's like to work here.


Your background and experience

Enrolled in any of the following majors or specializations (undergrad or graduate level): Business Technology Management (Management Information Systems), Business Analytics and Decision Making, Data Science, Finance - Commerce and Economics, Computer Science, Consulting & Strategic Management, Accounting, Statistics/Mathematics, Marketing or Operations Management/Research, or Business Analytics.
Strong proficiency in Microsoft Office: MS Excel, PowerPoint, Access, SharePoint, Visio, Adobe Suite, Outlook.
Experience in database, reporting, light application or statistical tools would be an asset especially but not limited to: Power BI, PowerApps, Tableau, Power Automate, SSRS, SQL, Python, R.
Working knowledge of data engineering design and implementation including expertise in ETL languages (e.g. SQL, Python), ETL and data ingestion pipelines, analytics data modelling, data store architectures, and analytics data platform administration.
Working knowledge of generative AI applications (e.g., Copilot, ChatGPT)


Important to know


Before we can finalize any offer of employment, you must:

Confirm you're legally entitled to work in Canada for the entire duration of the work term
Confirm you will be living in British Columbia for the entire duration of the work term
Confirm you're a registered student at a post-secondary institution and is participating in a work integrated learning program
Consent to a criminal record check and successfully meet the criminal record check clearance
Who are we?


At WorkSafeBC, we promote safe and healthy workplaces across British Columbia. We partner with workers and employers to save lives and prevent injury, disease, and disability. When work-related injuries and diseases occur, we provide compensation and support injured workers in their recovery, rehabilitation, and safe return to work. We're honoured to serve the 2.49 million workers and 263,000 registered employers in our province.

What's it like to work at WorkSafeBC?

It's challenging, stimulating, and rewarding. Our positions offer diversity and opportunities for professional growth. Every day, the work we do impacts people and changes lives. What we do is important, and so are the people we do it for.

Our ability to make a difference relies on building a team with a rich variety of skills, knowledge, backgrounds, abilities, and experiences that reflects the diversity of the people we serve. We are committed to fostering a welcoming, inclusive, and supportive work culture where everyone can contribute as their best, authentic self.


Our Benefits

As a member of our team, you'll have access to services and benefits that help you get the most out of work - and life. Along with a competitive salary, your total compensation package includes:

4% in lieu of benefits
4% in lieu of vacation
Salary:

Undergrad rate - $26.82/hour

Graduate rate - $30.79/hourly

Learn more: Discover who we are.



Want to apply?


A cover letter, resume and transcript are required. Your cover letter should state your availability (either four or eight months).
Submit all documents in one file (either Word or PDF files).
Applications are welcomed immediately, however must be received no later than 4:30 p.m. PST on the closing date.
We encourage all qualified applicants to apply. If you require an accommodation in the assessment process, please email Recruitment Testing Accommodation (SM) when you submit your application.
